---
path: nss-16
date: 2018-06-19T05:00:00.000Z
title: Nutshell Group Project and some humble pie
description: oof
---
This week, we had a group project called 'Nutshell'. The premise of the app was pretty simple, one could think of it as a Facebook-light. When users log in, they have access to 'Tasks', 'Events', 'Articles', 'Private Messages', and 'Friends' modules. Each module was written entirely by one person, with their own JavaScript files. There was very little overlap in files used, outside of the index.html and styles.css. The project went pretty well, in the end. I wish we had another day to style it, but it wasn't an option. Oh well! The first night of study group was pretty humbling and a little embarrassing to be honest. I volunteered to create the seed data for our 5 data collections. Just some data to populate the database and allow us to test out our modules. Well, I forgot one of the very first things that Callan taught us. The database needs a flat structure, no nested data and no arrays! Well, I totally did both, sigh... I was rushing to get it in there and put together some bad data. Michael (our team lead) cleaned it up and was nothing but nice about it.

Right about that same time, I was tasked with creating the 'Register' functionality of Firebase authentication. This is where it all kind of fell apart. I was rushing and pushing and not testing as I went along. In the end, I was stuck with a lot of really broken code. Stupid! I know better than that. I got flustered and had a hard time taking a breath and looking logically at my problems. I knew I could do this, I just did it last week without too much heartache! This time, was totally different and again, a humbling moment. That was pretty much the end of study group and thankfully, I had a 40 minute drive home. Gave me a chance to regroup and think through the problems I was facing. I sat down at my computer and essentially started over. I was able to make the authentication work that night and I had some level of confidence restored. It was a rough start to the group project!