---
path: nss-15
date: 2018-06-12T05:00:00.000Z
title: On our progress
description: ...not good
---
Long post ahead! Well, that was a little uncomfortable. Last night, we had a bit of a 'come to Jesus' moment as a class. Our lead instructor Zoe very bluntly put it that she doesn't have a grasp on the class's overall understanding of the material. She doesn't know if we need more time, if we aren't trying, or if there is some other thing she could do to help. Zoe also mentioned that among all 3 instructors, only two people asked questions this weekend. Two. Wow. After that, she mentioned that only 3 people pushed code this weekend! THREE! That is crazy, that blew my mind. I know and understand that we are all busy, many of us with full time jobs and spouses (some have kids even), so it's simply not possible to focus on NSS all the time. We all signed up for this though, knowing that juggling NSS and our personal lives was going to be hard. I still can't believe that only 3 people put in enough work to make commits and pull requests though...

Because of this situation, our instructors decided to switch gears and throw a mini-capstone group project at us. We have a week to do it. It is a cumulative project that takes parts from everything we have done so far and mashes it together. This is a challenging task for sure. Zoe flat out stated that she wanted us to understand all the code we wrote. She would rather we understand and not finish the project, than finish and not understand the code. I like that. Now, I just need to determine if I want to take on the most complex module or not.

Perhaps after all that, you are curious where I land on the spectrum of 'I totally get it' to 'I am totally lost'. Thankfully, I am closer to the 'I totally get it' side of things. Promises really tripped me up and kind of put me behind temporarily. Now that I've worked with them for a few weeks, debugged them and read ancillary sources about them, I feel at least partially comfortable with them. In terms of assignments and being behind or caught up, I am mostly caught up. My weather app is deployed and works and done on time! I even managed to solve some CORS issues, which are super annoying and a bit of a time sink. I applied styling that looks pretty slick, in my opinion. My personal portfolio page was basically scrapped and restarted from nothing. The skeleton is complete and everything works as it should. I focused on developing my page mobile first and then adjusted for tablet/desktop sizes after. Getting things to line up juuuust right in mobile and desktop views took some doing! I also really tried to keep all my code organized and easy to follow, such as, using similar Id names ('nav-home', 'nav-projects', 'container-resume', 'container-blog', etc). My projects page is lacking content, so I need to deploy some more projects and link to them. Not hard work, just takes a little bit of time. I feel pretty good about my current progress and understanding.

I am really looking forward to React, so I have really tried to keep up so I am ready. My biggest problem is getting long blocks of time to sit down and code. Coding at 9pm to midnight is a nice block of time, but I am mentally worn out from the day. On the other hand, working on weekends and evening, I am constantly interrupted by my daughter or the dog, etc. I am mentally much fresher, but I'm unable to get really focused on coding. I love Saturday lab days, I am rested and have uninterrupted coding time. I really have been busting my ass and nearly killing myself to get family time, work time and NSS time all crammed into a 24-hour day. I lose 1 hour and 20 minutes, 4 days a week to get to and from NSS. I have worked overtime for the past 4 weeks straight, sometimes coming back to work at 10pm to get an hour or two in. I am only slightly behind and I make no excuses for it. There is no shortcut to being a developer, just hard work and dedication.