content/blog/partially-through-week-2.md, before:

---
path: nss-1
date: 2018-02-21T06:00:00.000Z
title: Partially through week 2
description: NSS has begun
---
"Well, NSS is well underway. We are into our second week and I am feeling overall positive about everything. Tonight I fully understood what the next 12 months will be like, BUSY!

I am thankful I spent the past year preparing for bootcamp, this first couple weeks would feel pretty raw otherwise. I am comfortable with HTML and CSS, though not an expert. I’m hoping that day-to-day use will let it become muscle memory. For now, I feel like I’m having to think a bit too long before tackling the issue at hand. I must be patient, I am still learning (and always will).

For me, CSS is always a bit tricky. Since there is more than one way to handle styling, it can be tricky to figure out the best way or the most maintainable way. I want clean code that will be easy to pick up in 3 months time and not be totally lost. As well, there are so many ins and outs and little gotchas with CSS. For example, in my head, I’ll sometimes think it’s text-size: to adjust the font size. No, it’s font-size! In time, I’m sure those little things will go away and I won’t think twice when I adjust the size of the font.

Something we haven’t touched on much yet is responsive design. Developing mobile-first is really interesting and changes how one approaches the CSS. I am interested in diving more into this.

We also discussed Git/GitHub the past two nights. Boy am I glad I started learning and messing around with this technology months ago. It’s kind of abstract and, “Why would I need this?” at first. Of course, this version control system (VCS) is invaluable to developers and learning it is a fundamental skill. So far, we haven’t touched on anything too far out of what I already learned. One thing I did learn, I have already developed one bad habit with the way I treat my master branch! I frequently pushed directly to the master, instead of doing a pull request. Tsk tsk!

Using Git means using the command line. My roommate from college insisted I run Linux (Ubuntu) instead of windows. That was an interesting experiment and gave me fantastic exposure to the command line. Feeling at least partially comfortable in the command line has been incredibly helpful in the past few weeks and especially in NSS.

Finally, our class and instructors seem like a really good group so far. I am constantly laughing or smiling during lectures. People sitting around me seem excited to be there and eager to learn. I hope this energy continues and we can feed off each other for the next several months.

Commit message:

Update Blog “partially-through-week-2”

content/blog/partially-through-week-2.md, after:

---
path: nss-2
date: 2018-02-28T06:00:00.000Z
title: CSS Zen Garden and Git/GitHub for days
description: NSS continues
---
CSS/HTML are complete and now, it’s time for JavaScript! Alright! I’m really looking forward to JS and everything else. After a little review, it should be all fresh things to learn.

Well the “little review” part was right! We jumped right into JS, playing with strings one night and arrays the next. We also dealt with regular expressions which are pretty great. I can also see how regular expressions are a huge pain!

So far, my favorite part about JS is how powerful it can be with just a little knowledge. The ability to iterate through arrays is incredible and allows us to churn through a lot of data in a short time. Some of the solutions to our challenges (think, algorithm challenges) are really quite clever. I’m looking forward to further looping methods and some functional programming (map, reduce, filter). I have traditionally struggled with these aspects of JS. I’m hopeful NSS and our wonderful instructors can set me on the right path with the proper understanding.

Today (2/26/18), our CSS Zen Garden Assignments were due. The goal was to take some CSS Zen Garden design and recreate the HTML and CSS. Our study group tackled this exercise, partially as a team and the rest as an individual. As a team we discussed the HTML structure and appropriate HTML semantic tags. Once we agreed on the HTML, we all sourced the same images (2 total) and began to code away. I chose to code all the HTML first and then tackle the CSS last.

I have always fought with CSS (who hasn’t, really?), but this was a fairly smooth styling. Perhaps the muscle memory is starting to be built. I tried to be deliberate and clean with both HTML and CSS. I feel I was reasonably successful at both, with CSS being the more challenging of the two. We used a different header image and we did not use the same font. 

Another assignment we had was, Create 25 GitHub repos (5 a day for 5 days)!

Phew! It took a very long time the first day to do all these. By day 5, it was natural and normal. A bit tedious, but it really drove home the basic cycle of Git/GitHub usage. Today at work, I listened to numerous videos discussing rebasing, squashing commits, and ‘git difftool’. These are more advanced topics and I’m still wrapping my head around them. Late yesterday, a local developer noticed my seemingly endless stream of ‘test’ repos and commits. It made for a good laugh!
